---
layout: post
title: Mail configuration
tags: 
---
Lots of posts today. In recording my Snow Leopard experiences, it occurred to
me that a decision I made recently regarding handling of sent mail had not
been documented.  Since I am pretty satisfied, it seems time to document it.
This is NOT specific to any particular mail client other than it probably does
not make sense with Google mail and it's tag approach.

For years, I have told the mail client to put a copy of each message I sent
into a "sent mail" folder.  I have sometimes chosen to purge messages I did
not think were worth keeping from there, sometimes just offloaded the whole
file yearly into another tool, and sometimes tried to move messages that went
with particular conversations into a folder with the rest of the thread.

I have also played around with BCCing myself on messages.  This lets you know
the message made it out (for most mail clients) and also forces you to think
if there are any more actions to take now that you have sent the mail.
Possible actions include 1) scheduling a follow-up, 2) recording the data you
supplied in the message in another system, storing the message in folder with
the rest of the thread, etc.

About a month ago, I have decided to no longer store sent items on the server
but rather to store them locally on the client, to BCC myself on all messages,
and to automatically purge local sent items after 30 days.  My operating
approach is the BCC'ed message that falls into my inbox gets immediate
attention and I will process as appropriate as well as make a long term
archive decision.  Sent messages will hang around from where they were sent
for 30 days in case something goes wrong -- most of the time, the only thing
that goes wrong happens very soon since messages that I don't decide to
archive don't have any long term value.

Anyway, that is my new steady state approach for mail where I have folder-
control and I like it.

The other half of my mail is served by Google.

I am presently letting Google do what Google does <G>.  My present thought is
that if I were to use Google through an IMAP interface and use the above
approach, I would not be successful because Google would only have one message
(not the BCC one and the sent one) and if I auto-delete (tag as trash) I'll
lose the ones that are also tagged with something else (appear to be in a
folder) but I have not experimented yet.

**Update 9/13/2009:** Outlook 2007 won't BCC the sender without extra code or
a plug-in (sigh).

